#  Secure Coding Guidelines


Creating software is hard. Creating software that meets trivial security
and privacy design rules has proven to be very difficult. Securing
coding is the practice of developing software that prevents security and
privacy risks

This section gives an opinionated list of good programming standards for
creating software that meets some form of minimal security standards.
When it comes to privacy standards for software it\'s simple: Make sure
the secure coding rules are enforced and no personal data can be exposed
in any way. So start with using the privacy principles before coding.

Every software engineer should use Secure Coding guidelines and
practices. And every company must check that software used meets minimal
standards regarding mitigating security and privacy risks.

## Crypto coding standards

<https://github.com/veorq/cryptocoding> This reference gives good
\"coding rules\" for implementations of cryptographic operations, and
more generally for operations involving secret or sensitive values.
Created by Jean-Philippe Aumasson (<https://aumasson.jp/>)

## Defensive Coding Guide

A Guide to Improving Software Security,
<http://redhat-crypto.gitlab.io/defensive-coding-guide/>

This document provides guidelines for improving software security
through secure coding. It covers common programming languages (C,CPP,
Python, GO) and libraries, and focuses on concrete recommendations. Also
lots of unix \'must do\' and \'never do\' tips from a security
viewpoint.Licensed CC-BY-SA.

## GOlang programming

Go Language Web Application Secure Coding Practices,
<https://checkmarx.gitbooks.io/go-scp/> CC-Licensed so you can edit this
GitBook yourself. Check the repository on
<https://github.com/Checkmarx/Go-SCP> And of course OWASP Secure Coding
Practices are used for this GO specific publication.

## Mozilla

Mozilla is an OSS Foundation that produces a Browser and various other
online communication tools. Security and privacy is a number one
priority for the Mozilla Foundation. Mozilla produces large amount of
code in various programming languages. One of the secure coding
guidelines that is used internal can be found here:
<https://wiki.mozilla.org/WebAppSec/Secure_Coding_Guidelines>

## Reproducible builds

Reproducible builds are a set of software development practices that
create an independently-verifiable path from source code to the binary
code used by computers. Reproducible Builds project gives rules,
guidelines, tools and more to allow verification that no vulnerabilities
or backdoors have been introduced during the software compilation
process.

<https://reproducible-builds.org/>

## RUST programming

Guide to develop secure applications with Rust,
<https://anssi-fr.github.io/rust-guide/>

The object of this document is to provide hints and recommendations for
secure applications development using the Rust programming language.
This guide also includes a simple checklist. Github repository on:
<https://github.com/ANSSI-FR/rust-guide>

## Secure Programming HOWTO

This book provides a set of design and implementation guidelines for
writing secure programs. Such programs include application programs used
as viewers of remote data, web applications (including CGI scripts),
network servers, and setuid/setgid programs. Specific guidelines for C,
C++, Java, Perl, PHP, Python, Tcl, and Ada95 are included. It especially
covers Linux and Unix based systems, but much of its material applies to
any system. For a current version of the [book](https://dwheeler.com/secure-programs/)

So check:
https://dwheeler.com/secure-programs/


## Web security

Web Security technologies change continuously. A perfect solution does
not exist. So make sure good practices are combined with good principles
and non technical measurements for minimizing risks.
[Mozilla Web Security Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security)
